as Gloria Steinem says the truth will
set you free but first it will piss you
off the reality is if you want to
achieve something great in your life
you've got to be willing to accept who
you really are right now you've got to
know exactly what you're good at and
what you're not and the reason that the
truth is going to piss you off is it's
going to hurt it's going to hurt to
acknowledge that you're not yet who you
want to be it's going to hurt to know
that you're not yet capable of the
things that you want to be capable of
and it's really going to hurt to know
that the things that people say behind
your back the things that they say to
hurt you that they're actually true that
they're right they have a point you
aren't good at that thing you aren't as
good as you could be you did embarrass
yourself you have fallen down all of
those things are almost certainly true
but when you can look at those things
when you can stare naked leap at your
inadequacies when you can really stop
and not protect yourself with ego but
protect yourself by knowing that you're
gonna learn from where you fail you're
gonna learn from the places you've
fallen down you're going to learn your
inadequacies so that you can build
something new so that you can move from
that place into a place of purpose into
a place of skill set where you can
dominate the field because you've built
those skills but if you don't first
acknowledge that you need to build them
you can never begin the process in
earnest and as Michiyo Kaku says all
great ideas come
you've got to know what you want you've
got to know what that thing is that
you're building towards you've got to
know exactly who you're trying to become
and once you have that crystal-clear
vision of who you want to be it is far
easier to acknowledge who you really are
you've got to start with that picture
you've got to accept the reality pain
and all you've got to have that picture
you've got to know where you're going
you've got to know what the skills are
that you need to build in order to get
there and once you do that once you have
that picture and that picture is your
obsession it's the thing that you think
about you dream about you put it up on
your wall you tattoo it in your mind you
know exactly who you're trying to become
if you do that if you're honest with
yourself about where you are and you
know exactly where you want to go you
can go anywhere as Ralph Waldo Emerson
said shallow people believe in luck and
in circumstance strong people believe in
cause and effect that's the simplest
change that you could make in your life
to choose to believe that everything is
a result of choices that you make and it
is a choice you can choose to believe in
luck you can choose to believe that you
don't have control that you don't have
agency that the world is happening to
you or you can choose to recognize the
cause and effect exists that if you want
to get better at something you need to
put in the work that if you want to get
stronger you need to lift heavier
weights that you can either ask for
stronger shoulders to carry a bigger
load or you can ask for a lighter load
the choice is yours but at the end of
the day if you want those strong
shoulders they're yours to build you've
got to make those choices you've got to
understand the cause and effect you've
got to understand that your life right
now
is the exact reflection of your choices
your life the goo
the bad the ugly the hateful the painful
the joyful the beautiful everything in
your life is a reflection of you it's a
reflection of the things you've decided
to do it's a reflection of the things
you've decided not to do it's the story
you tell yourself about yourself what
you believe is capable all of those
things they're the choices that you're
making every day and at any time you can
choose to make a different choice and as
Bruce Lee said if you always put limits
on everything you do physical or
anything else it will spread into your
work and into your life there are no
limits there are only plateaus and you
must not stay there you must go beyond
them even in the statement you can see
him making the choice about what to
believe by saying that there are no
limits by taking something that other
people perceive as a limit is something
that's stopping him and saying that's
not it's a plateau it's something that I
can push through and you see what he
holds himself accountable to it's not
okay to stay at a plateau it's okay to
have when everybody has them they happen
it's a natural part of the course of
getting better but it is not okay to
stay there and that is a choice that's
not something anyone can hand you it's
something you have to believe to the
core of your soul that it is not okay to
stay in a plateau and it's that that's
gonna push you through it's that that's
gonna make you get up and keep going but
first you have to recognize that life is
cause-and-effect you have to recognize
that that choice is a knock-on effect
you have to recognize that him nearly
saying those words out loud have a cause
and effect
they changed the course of his life the
expectations that other people have of
him expectations that he has of himself
and because he understands that he can
control the outside world by first
controlling what's inside by changing
his belief system to match what he wants
to accomplish he's then able to
accomplish
what he did in his life have nothing to
do with luck it had everything to do
with the demands that he made on himself
it had to do with win he got in a
motorcycle accident people told him he
would never walk again not only did he
walk again all of the major
accomplishments that we think about it
being that man they all came after they
came after he was told he was never
gonna walk and came after he was told
that he was never going to be able to do
martial arts but he did it he did the
grueling work of getting better he
understood cause and effect he
understood that if he chose to believe
that he could never do it that he'd
never be able to do it but that if he
chose to believe that by working out he
could get stronger and get better and
get back to it that he could and that's
what he did so now ask yourself is your
life dictated by luck or cause and
effect
are you in control or is it somebody
else is someone else in control or is it
you and if it's you go build the life
that you want because there's nothing
stopping you but you everyone takes the
limits of their own vision for the
limits of the world
Arthur Chopin our there is all around
you right now the reflections of your
world belief they're so ever-present
that you don't even see them all the
assumption that you've made about the
world the things that are possible what
you're capable of who you are the very
definition of what it means to be alive
all of it is completely invisible and
you're mistaking what you have for what
could be and once you break free of that
once you understand that right now
you're a moment in time and that you
have latent potential and that latent
potential can be expressed in the form
of skills that you can get good at
things that you can develop yourself in
any direction that brain plasticity
alone is one of the greatest weapons
that you're not using but you have to
move beyond what you can perceive today
you have to begin to look beyond that
and see that which doesn't yet exist and
you have to remember that many of the
things that are holding you down are
rules that you don't even realize are
rules and as General Douglas MacArthur
said you're remembered for the rules you
break and right now you're following
rules that you don't even realize exists
and some of those rules are simply what
is okay to dream but I'm here to tell
you the power is in recognizing
that you can do it the power is in
having the arrogance of belief the power
is an understanding that you yes you are
going to be capable of something simply
because you are willing to believe in
yourself and that's the thing it's a
willingness to believe in yourself no
one's gonna give it to you even the
people that love you they're not gonna
give you that they are incapable of
giving it to you people cannot see past
their limitations and they take them for
truth people actually believe the things
that have stopped them will forever not
only stop them but they will stop other
people how can they hope to give you
anything but limitation so if you know
that if you know that even the people
that love you what they're handing it
was limitation with the best of [__]
intentions with all the love in the
world how are you gonna break out of
that how are you gonna break past those
rules how are you gonna fight the
anxiety that inevitably comes your way
when you think about going against the
grain but my friends until you can do
that you can never get beyond the
[__] that limits you if people said
gravity is what it is we never would
have reached the skate velocity and yet
as a species we have been able to hurl a
[__] rocket into space get it outside
of gravity take us to other planets that
is real only because somebody said I
refuse to be held down by the most
obvious rule that we have the one that
everybody says is beyond reproach and
that is gravity
but even gravity will break under the
weight of a superior will so recognizes
Epictetus said if you want to improve be
content to be thought foolish and stupid
can you be content to be thought foolish
and stupid or do you allow yourself to
caged to be hemmed in by what other
people think and look I get it I
understand the steam of contempt I
understand how much it sucks when
someone you respect doesn't respect you
but you cannot be anything more than
their captive if you think about what
they think about you if you let yourself
be defined by what other people perceive
of as you then you will forever be
limited by what they give you permission
to do and I don't know about you but
when I was a kid I said when I'm an
adult I will never [__] be told what
to do again I will never be held back by
somebody else I will define myself I
will figure out what I need to do and I
will do it and at the end of the day
that is it my goals drive my behavior I
am NOT held back by what other people
think about me no matter how [__]
intoxicating it is to be loved you have
to decide what you want more do you want
to be you or do you want to be someone
else's reflection of you
[Music]
as Mark Twain said the secret to getting
ahead is getting started that's
something I want all of you guys to
really embody and really think about
really put at the core of your existence
that step number one to accomplishing
whatever it is that you want to do is
actually getting started and I
understand I know the thing that holds
you back I know the thing that is
absolutely paralyzing for people is you
don't think that you have what it takes
to go out and be good and rather than
face that difficult brutal process of
growing and getting better and quite
frankly facing your inadequacies it's
easier just to sit back but as John
Wooden said never let what you cannot do
interfere with what you can there is
something right now that you're capable
of there is an innate skill inside of
you that's your spark it's that starting
point it's that thing that while you may
not be the best in the world at it it's
a flame that you can fan it's something
that you can breathe life into and
really begin to get good but first you
have to understand the very nature of
progress and that's a Stephen Covey said
you're not the product of your
circumstances
a product of your decisions and it's
those decisions that are going to allow
you to build that skill sets don't worry
about where you started don't worry
about what you already have
remember it's the decisions that you
make it's going down that road it is the
decision to get started
it's the decision to face possible
failure it's the decision to get up once
you've failed and it's the decision of
what to learn when you fail do you learn
that you're not
never should have tried well do you
learn a lesson from the failure and get
up and brush yourself off and remember
that at the end of the day you're going
to go as far as you're willing to fight
for and that's it if you're willing to
fight to go all the way then you will go
that far you will set a new bar you will
define for people what is possible to
become that beacon of hope you become
that thing that other people look to as
the standard at the end of the day it
started the huge getting started it
started with you showing up it started
with you pushing and trying
don't worry about what you have and what
you are focus on who you want to become
and the price you're willing to pay
together
[Music]
as Nelson Mandela said education is the
most powerful weapon you can use to
change the world wherever you are right
now listening to this I want you to burn
that into your mind the most powerful
weapon that you're going to have at your
disposal isn't a gun it isn't a sword it
isn't a bomb the most powerful weapon
you will ever have at your disposal if
you really want to make change is
knowledge it doesn't mean going to
school it can be school it can be books
it can be a mentor it can be somebody
else's failure it can be your own
failure but whatever it is to always be
learning to be learning something today
knowing that that's an investment and as
Robert Louis Stevenson said don't judge
each day by the harvest you reap but
rather by the seeds you plant and that's
what knowledge is that's what the
learning process is is you're learning
something today that you may not even
understand how it's going to be valuable
but one day
that piece of knowledge is gonna come to
your aid one day that thing that you
learned is gonna be something that
you're gonna lean on one day that thing
that you've worked your ass off to
understand better than anybody else in
the world it's going to help you change
the world but you have to be doing it
now you have to be learning with an
obsession you have to understand that
ideas and equal ideas out and that you
have to chase that knowledge down that
it is a relentless pursuit and that like
you would build an armada like you would
create a stock pile of weapons you must
create a stockpile of knowledge you must
learn and learn and learn and you must
hold yourself accountable every day
defending those seeds to getting better
to learning more to understanding things
more broadly when you do that there will
be nothing that won't
that's what I want you guys to
understand it doesn't matter where you
are
matter where you started your
circumstances the money the people that
you know none of it matters what matters
is how much he's willing to learn how
good are you willing to get how much
knowledge are you willing to soak in
because that will become your weapon
that will be how you rise up and that
would be the thing that will protect you
when you need it most
[Music]
for you
so if you want to do something
incredible tomorrow learn today as
Michelangelo said if people knew how
hard I work to achieve my mastery it
wouldn't seem so wonderful after all and
that's the thing about getting great
that's the thing about being an artist
of such caliber that you're remembered
for hundreds of years after your death
it is back-breaking work
it is a blinding amount of effort it
isn't about natural talent that myth
that some people are born with something
that we celebrate so much is just that a
myth you're born a lump of flesh you
can't hold your own head of you may have
predispositions but that is a long way
from actually crafting your ability and
to the point where it looks like magic
and that's the beauty of artistry isn't
it
that it's so unbelievable that you're
more willing to believe that it was God
given that they were anointed with it
than that they just worked their ass off
but the truth is every one of the
Great's no matter how much natural
talent they were born with they're
remembered because they worked they were
remembered because they did so much work
because in that work is hardship in that
work is difficulty in that work is
unbearable adversity but it's in that
adversity that the magic happens and as
Victor Hugo said adversity makes men
prosperity makes monsters so I know
right now you wish you'd been born with
some talent you wish that all those
dreams that you had they were yours for
the taking that you didn't have to put
blood sweat and tears into it that
somebody would hand you at least
something in the beginning that they
would give you some starts a spark
that's where the monsters created if you
really want to get hard if you really
want to get tough if you want to get
great if you want to be unfuckin
touchable because no one can bend or
break your vision of yourself then you
have to suffer that's the way of the
world and as Florence Nightingale said I
attribute my success to this I never
gave or took any excuse
and that's the secret at the end of the
day if you know what you want it's only
a question of whether you're willing to
pay the price to get there so ask
yourself are you willing to pay the
price
[Music]
you